
Pronoun: is a word, use instead of a noun which prevents the repeatation of nouns.
Example: saeeda(noun) is drinking cola. -> She(pronoun) is drinking water.

A pronoun is a word that replaces a noun in a sentence. Pronouns are used to avoid repeating the same nouns over and over again. For example, "Jeremy ran so fast, you'd think his life was on the line." The pronoun "his" saved us from repeating the name Jeremy again.

Common pronouns include I, me, mine, she, he, it, we, and us. In truth, there are many different types of pronouns, each serving a different purpose.

Personal Pronouns
Personal pronouns are used as a substitute for a person's name. There are two kinds: subjective and objective pronouns. That is, they either act as the subject of the sentence or the object of the sentence.

As the subject of a sentence, they are:

I

you

he

she

it

we

they

For example:

They went to the store.

I don't want to leave.

He runs a great shop in town.

You can't leave, either.

As the object of the sentence, they are:

me

you

her

him

it

us

them

For example:

Please don't sit beside me.

Go talk to her.

Mary put the gift under it.

Don't look at them.

For more, check out Subject Versus Object Pronouns.

Possessive Pronouns
Possessive pronouns show ownership or possession of a noun. They are:

my

our

your

his

her

its (note there is no apostrophe)

their

For example:

Is that my book?

No, that's his book.

That's its shelf.

I'd like to see their bookshelves.

However, there are also independent possessive pronouns. These pronouns refer to a previously named or understood noun. They stand alone and aren't followed by any other noun. They are:

mine

ours

yours

his

hers

its

theirs

For example:

That's mine.

Wrong. It's ours.

So, I suppose those clothes are yours?

No, it's theirs.

Indefinite Pronouns
Indefinite pronouns don't point to particular nouns. We use them when an object doesn't need to be specifically identified. As such, it can remain indefinite. They include:

few

everyone

all

some

anything

nobody

For example:

Most wealth is held by a select few.

Everyone is here already.

I don't have any paper napkins. Can you bring some?

He's nobody.

Relative Pronouns
Relative pronouns are used to connect a clause or phrase to a noun or pronoun. We often see them when we need to add more information. They are:

who

whom

which

whoever

whomever

whichever

that

For example:

The driver who ran the stop sign was careless.

I don't know which pair of shoes you want.

Take whichever ones you want.

No, not that one.

Intensive Pronouns
Intensive pronouns emphasize, or intensify, nouns and pronouns. Typically, we find them right after the noun they're intensifying. These pronouns typically end in -self or -selves. They are:

myself

himself

herself

themselves

itself

yourself

yourselves

ourselves

For example:

I myself like to travel.

He himself is his worst critic.

She approved the marriage herself.

We went to hear W.B. Yeats himself speak.

Demonstrative Pronouns
Demonstrative pronouns take the place of a noun that's already been mentioned. They can be singular or plural. There are five of them. They include:

these

those

this

that

such

For example:

These are ugly.

Those are lovely.

Don't drink this.

Such was his understanding.

Interrogative Pronouns
Interrogative pronouns do just what they say. They work in sentences that are posing a question. They are:

who

whom

which

what

whoever

whomever

whichever

whatever

For example:

Who is going to arrive first?

What are you bringing to the party?

Which of these do you like better?

Whatever do you mean?

Reflexive Pronouns
Reflexive pronouns are similar to intensive pronouns. The difference between the two is that intensive pronouns aren't essential to a sentence's meaning. Meanwhile, reflexive pronouns are. Also, they're used when the subject and the object of a sentence refer to the same person or thing. These pronouns end in -self or -selves. They are:

myself

yourself

himself

herself

itself

ourselves

yourselves

themselves

For example:

I told myself not to spend all my money on new shoes.

You're going to have to drive yourself to the restaurant today.

We gave ourselves plenty of extra time.

They bought themselves a new car.


----------------------------------------
new Info 
What is a pronoun?
A pronoun is a word that is used instead of a noun or noun phrase. Pronouns refer to either a noun that has already been mentioned or to a noun that does not need to be named specifically.

The most common pronouns are the personal pronouns, which refer to the person or people speaking or writing (first person), the person or people being spoken to (second person), or other people or things (third person). Like nouns, personal pronouns can function as either the subject of a verb or the object of a verb or preposition: "She likes him, but he loves her." Most of the personal pronouns have different subject and object forms:

pronoun table

There are a number of other types of pronouns. The interrogative pronouns—particularly what, which, who, whom, and whose—introduce questions for which a noun is the answer, as in "Which do you prefer?"

Possessive pronouns refer to things or people that belong to someone. The main possessive pronouns are mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, and theirs.

The four demonstrative pronouns—this, that, these, and those—distinguish the person or thing being referred to from other people or things; they are identical to the demonstrative adjectives.

Relative pronouns introduce a subordinate clause, a part of a sentence that includes a subject and verb but does not form a sentence by itself. The main relative pronouns are that, which, who, whom, what, and whose.

Reflexive pronouns refer back to the subject of a sentence or clause and are formed by adding -self or -selves to a personal pronoun or possessive adjective, as in myself, herself, ourselves, and itself.

Indefinite pronouns, such as everybody, either, none, and something, do not refer to a specific person or thing, and typically refer to an unidentified or unfamiliar person or thing.

The words it and there can also be used like pronouns when the rules of grammar require a subject but no noun is actually being referred to. Both are usually used at the beginning of a sentence or clause, as in "It was almost noon" and "There is some cake left." These are sometimes referred to as expletives.

Examples of pronoun in a Sentence
Recent Examples on the Web
Honestly, English requires so little declension in comparison with most languages that expecting the declension of pronouns in compound objects isn’t asking for the moon.
— Lionel Shriver, Harper's magazine, "Semantic Drift," 22 July 2019
The first Democratic debate was notable for the absence of two pronouns: Donald Trump, the man who the eventual nominee will take on next year, and Joe Biden, the current Democratic frontrunner.
— Alex Shephard, The New Republic, "Will anyone be brave enough to try to take down Joe Biden?," 28 June 2019
These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'pronoun.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.

See More
First Known Use of pronoun
15th century, in the meaning defined above

History and Etymology for pronoun
Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin pronomin-, pronomen, from pro- for + nomin-, nomen name — more at PRO-, NAME
=======
I am Hikmatullah Habibi

Directly added to master.
Yasir: You are so funny, Yasir!
site master has created.
The about page to this repo has added.
This is a grammar file.
for testing purpose Pronoun: is a word
something is (laugh)
I am the winner, watch insights
Pronoun: is used open agora.
kslajdfklsfjlkasjfd l;ksajd fl jflkjsa;lf this is a new version
Definition: A noun is a word that names a person, place, thing, or idea. . Abstract nouns name ideas, concepts, or emotions. These nouns are intangible, which means you cannot touch, see, hear, smell, or taste them using your five senses.
There are four types of pronouns: subject pronouns, object pronouns, possessive pronouns, and demonstrative pronouns. Pronouns are one of the eight parts of speech.
THis is not a grammar file. hahahahh
this is a new version of blog.
Pronouns take the place of a person, place, or thing in sentences once the context is understood. For example:

Peter enjoys walking his dog in the park. He often walks three or more miles with him.
and you can enjoy this file.

In this case, the pronouns 'he' in the second sentence replaces 'Peter', and the object 'him' replaces 'his dog'. Pronouns are used in all languages including English to simplify the language. English learners should learn the following types of pronouns, paying special attention to minor differences between each form.​

Subject Pronouns
Subject Pronouns - I, you, he, she, it, we, you, they function as the subject of a sentence:

I live in New York.
Do you like playing tennis?
He doesn't want to come this evening.
She works in London.
It won't be easy.
We are studying pronouns at the moment.
You went to Paris last year, didn't you?
They bought a new car last month.

Object Pronouns
Object Pronouns - me, you, him, her, it, us, you, them serve as the object of a verb.

Give me the book.
He told you to come tonight.
She asked him to help.
They visited her when they came to New York.
She bought it at the store.
He picked us up at the airport.
The teacher asked you to finish your homework.
I invited them to a party.

Possessive Pronouns 
Possessive pronouns - mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, yours, theirs show that something belongs to someone. Note that the possessive pronouns are similar to possessive adjectives (my, his, her). The difference is that the object follows the possessive adjective but does not follow the possessive pronoun. For example: "That book is mine" (possessive pronoun) vs. "That is my book" (possessive adjective).

That house is mine.
This is yours.
I'm sorry, that's his.
Those books are hers.
Those students are ours.
Look over there, those seats are yours.
Theirs will be green.
Demonstrative Pronouns 
Demonstrative pronouns - this, that, these, those refer to things. 'This' and 'these' refer to something that is near. 'That' and 'those' refer to things that are farther away.

This is my house.
That is our car over there.
These are my colleagues in this room.
Those are beautiful flowers in the next field.
Possessive Adjectives
Possessive adjectives - my, your, his, her, its, our, your, their are often confused with possessive pronouns. The possessive adjective modifies the noun following it in order to show possession. 

I'll get my books.
Is that your car over there?
That is his teacher, Mr. Jones.
I want to go to her store.
Its color is red.
Can we bring our children?
You are welcome to invite your families.
They bought their children a lot of presents.



NOte: without Grammmer no one can talk formaly in communication!
redLine:

MY NEW BRANCH!
